# Project 1: Analysis of the implementation of the Cholesky method in open source programming environments.

This project aims to examine the implementation of the Cholesky method for solving linear systems with sparse, symmetric and positive definite matrices in open source programming environments. The goal is to compare these implementations with MATLAB in terms of runtime, accuracy, memory usage, ease of use, and documentation to determine whether the paid environment justifies its cost by providing superior performance to free open source environments. Sparse matrices, which are widely used in scientific computational problems, contain many elements equal to zero, which provides significant savings in computational cost. The Cholesky method, an alternative to Gauss elimination, can be applied to symmetric and positive definite matrices for their factorization. The project involves comparing the basic MATLAB solver with at least one open-source library on Windows and Linux systems, using matrices from the SuiteSparse Matrix Collection.

# Project 2: Compression of gray tone images using the Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT2) in an open source environment.

This project examines the compression of gray tone images using the Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT2) in an open source environment. The main objective is to study the effects of a JPEG-like compression algorithm, implemented without the use of a quantization array, on images and to compare the execution times between the DCT2 implementation developed and that provided by the library of the environment used. The time comparison is based on square arrays of size N x N, and compares the times taken by the two algorithms to execute DCT2 when N varies. In addition, software was developed that allows the user to select an image in .bmp gray tone format, provide the F and d parameters, and compress the image using DCT2. The software provides an original image and a compressed image to compare the results.
